1. True : This keyword is used to represent a boolean true. If a statement is true, “True” is printed.




2. False : This keyword is used to represent a boolean false. If a statement is false, “False” is printed.




3. None : This is a special constant used to denote a null value or a void. Its important to remember, 0, any
          empty container(e.g empty list) do not compute to None.It is an object of its own datatype – NoneType.
          It is not possible to create multiple None objects and can assign it to variables.





4. and : This a logical operator in python. “and” Return the first false value .if not found return last.
         The truth table for “and” is depicted below.

         3 and 0 returns 0
         3 and 10 returns 10
10 or 20 or 30 or 10 or 70 returns 70



 Following lines are straight from the python docs explaining this:

****The expression x and y first evaluates x; if x is false, its value is returned; otherwise,
y is evaluated and the resulting value is returned.


****The expression x or y first evaluates x; if x is true, its value is returned; otherwise,
y is evaluated and the resulting value is returned.








5. or : This a logical operator in python. “or” Return the first True value.if not found return last.
        The truth table for “or” is depicted below.

        3 or 0 returns 3
        3 or 10 returns 3
0 or 0 or 3 or 10 or 0 returns 3









6. not : This logical operator inverts the truth value. The truth table for “not” is depicted below.






7. assert : This function is used for debugging purposes. Usually used to check the correctness of code.
            If a statement evaluated to true, nothing happens, but when it is false, “AssertionError” is raised .
            One can also print a message with the error, separated by a comma.





8. break : “break” is used to control the flow of loop. The statement is used to break out of loop
            and passes the control to the statement following immediately after loop.





9. continue : “continue” is also used to control the flow of code. The keyword skips the current
               iteration of the loop, but does not end the loop.






10. class : This keyword is used to declare user defined classes






11. def : This keyword is used to declare user defined functions.





12. if : It is a control statement for decision making. Truth expression forces control to go in
         “if” statement block.





13. else : It is a control statement for decision making. False expression forces control to go in “else”
           statement block.





14. elif : It is a control statement for decision making. It is short for “else if”





15. del : del is used to delete a reference to an object. Any variable or list value can be deleted
          using del.




