Prerequisites:



Knowledge of any programming language can be a plus.




Reason for increasing popularity

1.Emphasis on code readability, shorter codes, ease of writing

2.Programmers can express logical concepts in fewer lines of code in comparison to languages such as C++ or Java.

3.Python supports multiple programming paradigms, like object-oriented, imperative and functional programming
  or procedural.

4.There exists inbuilt functions for almost all of the frequently used concepts.

5.Philosophy is “Simplicity is the best”.
















                                              LANGUAGE FEATURES

1.Interpreted:-
            *There are no separate compilation and execution steps like C and C++.

            *Directly run the program from the source code.

            *Internally, Python converts the source code into an intermediate form called bytecodes which is then
            translated into native language of specific computer to run it.

            *No need to worry about linking and loading with libraries, etc.


2.Platform Independent:-

                    *Python programs can be developed and executed on multiple operating system platforms.

                    *Python can be used on Linux, Windows, Macintosh, Solaris and many more.




3.Free and Open Source:- Redistributable




4.High-level Language:-

                 In Python, no need to take care about low-level details such as managing the memory used by the program.



5.Simple:-
           *Closer to English language;Easy to Learn
           *More emphasis on the solution to the problem rather than the syntax





6.Embeddable:-
            Python can be used within C/C++ program to give scripting capabilities for the program’s users.






7.Robust:-
            *Exceptional handling features
            *Memory management techniques in built






8.Rich Library Support:-

                         *The Python Standard Library is vary vast.

                         *Known as the “batteries included” philosophy of Python ;It can help do various things
                         involving regular expressions, documentation generation, unit testing, threading, databases,
                         web browsers, CGI, email, XML, HTML, WAV files, cryptography, GUI and many more.

                         *Besides the standard library, there are various other high-quality libraries such as the
                         Python Imaging Library which is an amazingly simple image manipulation library.















                                                     Python vs JAVA

Python	                                                                          Java

1.Dynamically Typed1.No need to declare anything.                  1.Statically Typed 1.All variable names
An assignment statement binds a name to an object,                 (along with their types)
and the object can be of any                                       must be explicitly declared.Attempting to assign
type.2.No type casting required                                    an object of the wrong type to a variable name
when using container objects                                       triggers a type exception.2.Type casting
                                                                   is required when using container objects.





2.Concise Express much in limited words	                           2.VerboseContains more words

3.Compact	                                                       3.Less Compact

4.Uses Indentation for structuring code	                           4.Uses braces for structuring code


