1. bisect(list, num, beg, end) :-

This function returns the position in the sorted list,
where the number passed in argument can be placed so as to maintain the resultant list in sorted order.
If the element is already present in the list, the right most position where element has to be inserted is returned.
This function takes 4 arguments, list which has to be worked with, number to insert, starting position in list
to consider, ending position which has to be considered.










2. bisect_left(list, num, beg, end) :-

This function returns the position in the sorted list, where the number passed in argument can be placed so
as to maintain the resultant list in sorted order.
If the element is already present in the list, the left most position where element has to be inserted is returned.
This function takes 4 arguments, list which has to be worked with, number to insert, starting position in
list to consider, ending position which has to be considered.









3. bisect_right(list, num, beg, end) :- This function works similar to the “bisect()” and mentioned above.









4. insort(list, num, beg, end) :-

This function returns the sorted list after inserting number in appropriate position,
if the element is already present in the list, the element is inserted at the rightmost possible position.
This function takes 4 arguments, list which has to be worked with, number to insert, starting position in list
to consider, ending position which has to be considered.






5. insort_left(list, num, beg, end) :-

This function returns the sorted list after inserting number in appropriate position, if the element is already
present in the list, the element is inserted at the leftmost possible position.
This function takes 4 arguments, list which has to be worked with, number to insert, starting position in
list to consider, ending position which has to be considered.






6. insort_right(list, num, beg, end) :- This function works similar to the “insort()” as mentioned above.